#summary A description of Pixlr online image editor.
#labels Featured

_The following description is inspired from [http://pixlr.com/faq Pixlr's FAQ]._

== What is Pixlr? ==

*Pixlr* is the creator of online, mobile and desktop image tools and utilities. Today they have three applications in their suite: [http://pixlr.com/editor/ Pixlr Editor], [http://pixlr.com/express/ Pixlr Express] and [http://pixlr.com/o-matic/ Pixlr-o-matic]. Those applications are built in Flash and you need to have the Flash plug-in (get flash) to get it to work, however, 98% of all computers have flash so you are probably set. they also provide screengrabbing tools [http://pixlr.com/grabber/ Pixlr Grabber] and one click photo sharing [http://imm.io/ imm.io]. Pixlr is now part of [http://autodesk.com/ Autodesk], a global leader in innovative design software and services.

== Who needs online tools? ==

The pixlr services is built for both non-professionals and professional users with editing needs such as editing web images to be posted on social networks like Facebook, MySpace, Bebo, or image sites like Flickr, Fotolog, Photobucket etc. 

It's also widely used by professionals for fixing images for news sites and blogs etc.

== Performance? ==

Since the editors are Flash-based, how they run depends on what kind of computer you have. If it is lagging you can try to shut down other web page that might be running Flash ads or close other software on your computer that is taking a lot of CPU.

== Why Flash and not HTML5? ==
People behind Pixlr are very pragmatic when it comes to development and use the tool best suited for the product they build. Flash still gives them big advantages compared to HTML5, like the 98% penetration of flash, open/save files local and a bunch of other stuff.

== How about privacy? ==

From Flash 10 and later, images are opened direct and local in your browser (i.e we don't see them in any way and they don't leave your computer). 

Files that are posted to us via the API or our add-ons are automatically deleted from our servers after 5 minutes.